The cerebral cortex is the intricate fabric of interconnected neural cells covering the cerebral hemispheres; the body’s ultimate control and information-processing center. It is divided into four regions called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe, and occipital lobe. It is located in both the right and left hemispheres. The frontal lobes are involved in speaking, motor movements, judgement, and decision making. The parietal lobes receive and processes sensory input for touch and body position. The temporal lobes receive auditory information, primarily from the opposite ear. The occipital lobes receive visual information, primarily from the opposite visual field. The motor cortex controls voluntary movements. The somatosensory cortex registers information from the skin senses and body movements. The two hemispheres of the cerebral cortex are part of the forebrain (Figure 1), which is the largest part of the brain. The forebrain contains the cerebral cortex and a number of other structures that lie beneath the cortex (called subcortical structures): thalamus, hypothalamus, pituitary gland, and the limbic system (collection of structures). The cerebral cortex, which is the outer surface of the brain, is associated with higher level processes such as consciousness, thought, emotion, reasoning, language, and memory. Each cerebral hemisphere can be subdivided into four lobes, each associated with different functions. The four lobes of the brain are the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes (Figure 2). The frontal lobe is located in the forward part of the brain, extending back to a fissure known as the central sulcus. The frontal lobe is involved in reasoning, motor control, emotion, and language. It contains the motor cortex, which is involved in planning and coordinating movement; the prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for higher-level cognitive functioning; and Broca’s area, which is essential for language production. Each cerebral hemisphere can be subdivided into four lobes, each associated with different functions. The frontal lobes are located at the front of the brain, behind the forehead (Figure 4). Their main functions are associated with higher cognitive functions, including problem-solving, decision-making, attention, intelligence, and voluntary behaviors. The frontal lobes contain the motor cortex, which is responsible for planning and coordinating movements. It also contains the prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for initiating higher-lever cognitive functioning, and Broca’s Area, which is essential for language production. The temporal lobes are located on both sides of the brain, near the temples of the head, hence the name temporal lobes (Figure 5). The main functions of these lobes include understanding, language, memory acquisition, face recognition, object recognition, perception, and processing auditory information. There is a temporal lobe in both the left and right hemispheres. The left temporal lobe, which is usually the most dominant in people is associated with language, learning, memorising, forming words, and remembering verbal information. The left lobe also contains an important language centre known as Wernicke’s area, which is essential for language development. The right temporal lobe is usually associated with learning and memorising non-verbal information and determining facial expressions. The parietal lobe is located at the top of the brain, between the frontal and occipital lobes, above the temporal lobes (Figure 6). The parietal lobe is essential for integrating information from the body’s senses in order to allow us to build a coherent picture of the world around us. These lobes allow us to have a perception of our bodies through somatosensory information (e.g. through touch, pressure, and temperature). It can also help with visuospatial processing, reading, and number representations (mathematics). The parietal lobes also contain the somatosensory cortex, which receives and processes sensory information, integrating this into a representational map of the body. This means it can pinpoint the exact area of the body where sensation is felt, as well as being able to perceive the weight of objects, shape, and texture. The occipital lobes are located at the back of the brain behind the temporal and parietal lobes and below the occipital bone of the skull (Figure 7). The occipital lobes receive sensory information from the retinas of the eyes which is then encoded into different visual data. Some of the functions of the occipital lobes include being able to assess size, depth, and distance, determine colour information, object and facial recognition, and mapping the visual world. The occipital lobes also contain the primary visual cortex which receives sensory information from the retinas, transmitting this information relating to location, spatial data, motion, and the colours of objects in the field of vision. 